- [Instructor] So, let us now implement
the demo for URL Rewriting.
The first thing we have to do is,
we have to disable the cookies in the browser
because we know that URL Rewriting will fit in
only when the cookies are disabled.
So, let me go to the browser.
Go to settings,
and you can just search for cookies, here,
and you get an option of condense settings, that's the one.
You have to click there.
And, this is enabled right now.
That's something that we will disable.
So, when we disable, the cookies are gone now.
Alright?
So, the first step is done.
Now, let's go ahead and write LoginServlet
and set up the session.
In our code, we already have the LoginServlet
which we had utilized for the Request Dispatcher demo,
so that's already ready with us.
Now, we've just added the new post method,
and that's the place we want to do some things, right?
Now, please note that under the HTML folder,
the home.jsp and profile.jsp,
these files weren't functional before,
but now we're going to use
for this particular use case demo.
So, let them just be there under the HTML folder,
and we just need to use it in this particular demo.
So, let's go ahead.
Now, the first thing is when are you going
to come to new post.
Whenever the user enters the credentials
on Login jsp and clicks on that login button.
So, if want to take a look at the login.jsp,
let's take a look at it.
That's the form.
So, you enter the username, you enter the password,
and you click on the submit button,
and you submit this form via a post request
to that login sublet.
So, let's quickly embed the attributes of action and method.
So, action will be login,
but the method, however, will be post this time.
Now let's go ahead in the login sublet
and let's do a few things here.
The first one is you have to get
the username from the login form.
So I'm going to say string username
to get the data from the request.
We know how to do that now.
Embed the name of the element.
That's right.
Next is we want to set up a session.
Be it cookies or URL rewriting.
In both the cases HTTP session object
has to be present in your code,
otherwise nothing of this will work.
So let's take the HTTP session object quickly.
The same way as we had done for the cookies, req.getsession.
Now let's come ahead and set that username
as an attribute in the session.
The way we tracked the card in the previous video,
you'll be able to track the username in this session.
So we say session.setattribute,
give it a key, let's call the key as username itself
and the value is going to be this username
that we collected from the front.
Great.
Now the last step will be to forward
the control to the home page.
Please understand that whenever we come to do post
we are assuming, as I said, that this is going to be
a successful login so I'm going
to take the user to the home page.
If you want to go to the home page, what do we do?
We take the help of our own request dispatcher,
so /html/home.jsp and then in walk the forward API
pass the requested response objects and we are done.
So we have already in the LoginServlet we have set up
the session, we have stored the user information,
and we have also forwarded the control to the home jsp
assuming that it is a success login.
Next step is to write the servlet for view profile link
and fetch the session information to verify.
What we intend to do is, once we are completed
with this login process, the session is setup,
the username is available.
Now when we go to the homepage,
I'm going to click on one of the links.
When I click I should enter a servlet.
That servlet should give me
the appropriate username from the session.
If that's the case, then we know that
the URL rewriting is really working for session management.
Let's do that.
I have return to user view profiles servlet for that link
and what I'm going to do here is I'm going to
get the username from the session.
I will say request.getsession and .getattribute.
Pass attribute name and let's do one thing.
Let's just print this out on the console itself
so we know whether we are getting the username or not.
Let's put a message for it too.
Let's say username and profile servlet.
Let's close this and open this value.
Once we do this you're just going to go ahead
and forward the control to profile jsp
because that's where we want to reach.
So we'll take the request object again.
Consult our request dispatcher
and forward the control to profile.jsp.
Okay, that's good.
So we've written out a servlet,
we have fetched the username from the session,
so if you get the correct username in the session
it means that the session is correctly setup
and everything now, it is getting done
using a URL rewriting we are fixing in the session ID.
Now the next step will be to encode the URL
for the viewprofile hyperlink on home.jsp.
So we know that the developer has to encode the URL
only after the URL rewriting process
is going to be done by the server.
Let's go ahead, let's take this URL pattern
on line number 11.
Let's go to the home jsp and on line number 23
is my list element for view my profile.
So here I'm going to assign that URL,
however I'm going to encode it first.
How?
Expression element.
Let's take an expression element.
Close this quickly and I'm going to use
the implicit object of jsp response
and I'm going to say, .encodeurl, that's the API.
Under this now you can write your URL pattern.
That is how it will go.
So this is just a hyperlink.
If you have any other form action elements on this page,
you will need to encode all those URLs in a similar fashion.
You have to invoke this API called response
to our end code URL and then feed the URL pattern
of that particular servlet that you want to go to.
That's how this works.
There is one last bit that we have
to understand from the concept perspective.
Whenever you see request.getsession
and if it is the first time you are coming
to the application, this request.getsession
will return you a new HTTP session object.
However, for all the subsequent requests
that we are making to the login servlet
and if the same API is invoked,
it will return the same object
that it created for that user.
It's not going to be a new object now.
That's exactly how session management works.
Let's let it be for cookies or be it for URL rewriting,
in either ways the server API is very smart
that if it's the first time, this API call
will give you a new object.
If it's a subsequent times, then it's going to return
the same object which was attached to that user.
So we need not worry about managing that stuff.
Alright, so we have coded all the steps,
so let's go ahead and run this demo and check.
So now I'm going to go to login.
Let's quickly login.
So admin is the username that I'm putting in
and I'll click on the login button.
So I'm on the homepage right now.
Now, if I click on this view my profile hyperlink,
I should be getting admin as the username
that I have set in session.
Let's check that.
Let's click on this link and go to our console
and see whether we are getting.
Yes we are.
We are getting the username admin in the profile servlet.
So this entire thing was done basically by URL rewriting.
You know how, upserve the URL.
Do you see that the j session ID was up in that?
That happened because we encoded the URL
so that now the URL was re-returned
and then the request was made to the server side.
The server now is free to extract the session ID
from the URL and hence it identifies
that it is the same user who has come again.
All of this we did.
We did the entire session management,
but this time, by disabling the cookies
and falling back to the URL rewriting option.
This is how session management works
in most of the industry projects.
You really don't do the disabling of cookies,
so session management should smoothly work
with cookies enabled in the browser.